# Week 3, Normal Forms Quiz, Question 1, Stanford Finite Automata

# Problem definition

Let the grammar `G` of `L` be the one below:

`S` -> `AB` | `CD`
`A` -> `BC` | `a`
`B` -> `AC` | `C`
`C` -> `AB` | `CD`
`D` -> `AC` | `d`

1. Find all generating symbols
2. Eliminate all *useless productions*
3. In the resulting grammar, eliminate all symbols that are **not** reachable.

Then select from your given statements in gradiance the one that is 
**false**.

# Find all generating symbols

Recall that a grammar symbol is a generating one if there is a derivation of at 
*least* one terminal string that starts with that particular symbol. In our
grammar we have *two* generating symbols as is shown below.

 * `a` and `d` are discovered as they are terminal symbols.
 * `A` is discovered as a generating symbol because `A` -> `a` and `a` 
is a *terminal symbol*.
 * `D` is discovered as a generating symbol because `D` -> `d` and `d`
 is a *terminal symbol*.

# Eliminate all *useless productions*

This a two step process, first we eliminate the useless unit productions and then
we eliminate the useless productions from the resulting grammar.

## Eliminate unit productions

To do that we first have to create two distinct sets which have the following 
properties:

 1. Set `p1` has all unit productions
 2. Set `p2` has all of productions in our grammar that are **not** unit productions.


We see that this grammar does not have any unit production that is not towards a 
generating symbol, yet.

## Eliminate useless productions

We start the recursive *discovery* algorithm which has the following steps:

 1. Discover all terminal symbols
  * For this grammar we have the following terminal symbols: `a`, `d`
 2. Discover immediate productions of symbols that produce the already discovered ones
  * We discover `A` because `A` -> `a`, and `D` because `D` -> `d`.
  
Nothing more can be added.

Thus our final grammar becomes:

`A` -> `a`
`D` -> `d`

All other states are removed because they could not be added to the set using the 
recursive discovery algorithm.

# Answers

In my instance I had the following options to select from:

 1. `B` is reachable
 2. `D` is not reachable
 3. `B` -> `C` is useless
 4. `a` is not reachable
 

In this question we have to select the option that is **FALSE**, which is based on the
previous statements **option 1**: "`B` is reachable".
